hi everyone my name is hector seung-wan
and I'm the lead for ipfs cluster I'm
gonna give you a quick update of what
happens in the last quarter and I would
like to expand on Cluster in in one
conference session a bit longer to talk
about the internals and all the pieces
in the ipfs world that we use and all
the cool things that we do but let's
start with this I'm gonna tell you what
cluster does and what it wants to do
we're gonna see what we did and also
what we want to do in the future
graphs are aims to be able to
orchestrate pin sets on top of several
ipfs daemons the team right now is me
Adrian Lancer family and Michelle she's
partially working with that and I think
she's gonna work more with us during
this quarter we do team replication that
means pushing content to different ipfs
demons in your network and replicating
them to serve our replication factors we
choose which peers are the most the
better suited for the content based on
the free disk space we provide api's we
provide authentication on the on those
api's we provide we exposed to them
through the p2p we can attach HTTPS so
quite versatile and quite easy to
integrate with we provide what we call
composition which is a proxy to the ipfs
daemon underline the idea of caste
appear which means that your cluster can
behave like an IPSS demon or expose ni
BFS compatible api we have awesome
documentation we worked really hard last
four
in setting up a website and updating
documentation we have guides all
everything is documented in much data
and what's something that we do as a
team is also running the storage cluster
and the bean pods for the community so
if you go to the IPF a spin but IRC
channel for example and you tell the pin
bot to pin a blue pin in our storage
cluster and we're running that five
years with lots of storage behind what
do we want to be we want to do a bunch
of things one of them is say you want to
run a bunch of ipfs nodes we want to
make it easy for you we want to be the
tool that allows you to replicate and
store large amounts of data we want to
be the tool that allows groups of users
which are interested in in archiving or
backing up data and above ipfs to make
that easy for them to have color
different organizations which are
archiving data on top of IP FS to be
able to collaborate easily we also want
to want to be on an example and a
validator of ipfs on the p2p
technologies and how you can build upon
them we use pops-up we use ipfs we
usually p2p we use IP le now so these
are all things which we are testing on
top and this allows you to and it has
happened before uncover things that we
need it will be good to have in these
libraries below and things which are not
working and that we can report and fix
for everyone in the community on the
last water the main milestone was the
0.040 release there were several things
that we changed one was a bean tracker
which is basically making sure that ipfs
daemon is correctly pinning what cluster
wants it to pin and
directly tracking that content we made a
lot of fixes in there we started a
consensus component meaning that we
refactor it and made it an independent
layer that we can more easily replace in
the feature and talk a little bit about
that later
and this refactor brought configurations
changes and we also introduced pub/sub
for metric distribution etc which
managed to retake the dag shard in
branch this is a feature of cluster that
will allow you to if you have something
that is too big to store in a single
ipfs daemon it will be divided across
your cluster ipfs demons it's really
cool we need a couple things from God
BFS and we submitted those so we're
close to having no blockers to actually
finish this as iwe finish the eye PFF
pastor website looks wrinkled thank you
I gotta for the design and I had ruined
joins a cluster team so that meant I'm
bored in making him a productive member
of the whole thing and welcome it's
great to have you on board in the short
term and I don't want to make many
promises that's why I reduce this to the
minimum kill three will be dark shardene
I will be spearheading the monitoring
exposing metrics and doing things about
how cluster beers monitor each other and
distribute the internal metrics and so
on Adrian will be working on the
Michelle will be doing user research and
outreach figuring out where our users
want reaching out to users trying to
have people run cluster and see how we
can support them I will skip that I will
skip that I would get that
yeah because those are hidden you see
they shouldn't show even in presentment
in the mint midterm we want better
composite clusters we want collaborative
pin sets which is basically clusters
that can scale to the thousands and we
won since we will have more metrics on
monitoring we want to start measuring
how long it takes to ingest data and to
distribute it using cluster and using IP
FS more automation and deployment for
people that run cluster an idea for some
production how how can they automate
deployment of these tools in their data
centers in the very long term forward
error correction and other storing
methods that will allow you to
efficiently store your data and
replicate it and being able to basically
backup very large amount of data and
that cluster scales the way it needs to
scale I think that was it thank you very
much I'm happy to answer any questions
however the Parenti the DHT the crystal
we're gonna problem and question is
we're going to delete some some fires on
the private cluster and it's not
possible nowadays so this is our
question yeah you need to run garbage
collection if you have application in
our data Parenti Krauser we are now used
ipfs where was the crystal the prevented
activates the crystal but the aggravator
cannot either fight and our fight is a
friend a family issue
he's the fry and and the fire he can and
I want to cancel my my fight in in this
this the pacifist of fearfulness crystal
so if you have a private swarm of ipfs
with IP offense Custer you gonna use
cluster to delete a file you need to
pump in it from cluster
this will unpin it from IDF s and this
then you have to run garbage collection
on ipfs to eliminate the file we can go
over it later also I can tell you I'm
sorry if you might want to run a session
this week on like it's people setting up
a cluster and like trying it out we can
do that I think it would be really cool
to to just get people familiar with
running it this is really awesome like
it's just it's been much easier to use
ipfs well since I started using cluster
yeah thank you
yeah we can do that and I have a session
also about the internals because yeah we
used we p2p consensus and I think we're
the only ones actually on the
I don't know whether asked this question
to you Hector or Lars
but kubernetes ipfs cluster where do I
go to learn probably probably me I will
say this falls within my effort to
provide automation deployment methods
for ipfs and ipfs pasture this is there
and hopefully we're going to hire
someone specifically to work on these
automations kubernetes dogger bubba Jeff
everything she'll be there